Now one of the thing that distinguishes a very fast walk from a run is that at some point in time in
a run cycle Both feet are up off the ground and the way I have it here the problem is I mean go back
to the side view here.
Problem is here even at frame six there's a toe still on the ground right.
And then we go to the contact here for the right foot.
So my problem is is that he's never really completely off the ground so I need to get that right here.
Let's take that foot control that foot roll and let's press old ah and clear the rotation on that and
then let's grab the actual foot control and let's move this up and rotate it.
So we're kind of like this.
We're kind of up in the air like this.
Like that.
And that's probably all we need for that.
Let's go over to frame 12 here and yeah let's do the same thing here.
Let's take that foot roll.
Press all are and then let's grab the foot control and bring it up and rotate it back like that.
All right.
Frame six frame twelve.
Yeah let's kind of like this a little bit better.
Let's go like this okay.
Frame six frame twelve six.
Well there's a bit of movement with the hips here that I'm not Yeah.
Let's select those hips.
Let me deselect everything down here select the hips and let's get well let's see.
So this frame five and 11 are pretty good all right.
In terms of the hips and the position frame six comes down just a bit and frame 12 comes down even more
so that's not quite right.
Huh.
Well what let's do is take this and let's go out and create a key frame.
I'm going to press I and choose location and rotation.
And now with this created I'm just going to duplicate it shift D and move it over to here.
Let's see how that works.
Yeah.
That's better now we just need to get the feet into the correct position
six and 12
and we go that's not too bad.
Yeah.
All right.
So now let's give it a try.
I'll deselect everything.
We can also come over here and hide the armature hide it right here and then we can get the spacebar.
Let's see how he's doing we can tumble around and see him go Yeah I think uh think that works pretty
well.
Okay good.
I'll hit the spacebar.
I'll go and bring the armature back.
Here we go.
Now let's think about the 2D face the entire animation here the entire cycle is only half a second long.
So if we had him blink anywhere in here or really do anything in here he would do it twice a second.
And that's a lot.
So I don't think we can really have an animation happening during the run cycle but what we can do is
change his expression and just have that one expression hold while he runs.
So I think what we really need to do is just change his eyebrows and change the mouth.
Let's go ahead and come out of pose mode to object mode and then we can select that grease pencil object
and then let's come over here from object and go to draw.
All right.
So now we can see our layers over here for the brows.
Well let's go to brow El here and and we can access all of these at the same time in edit mode because
it's all one object.
It's like having a 3-D model with a bunch of different pieces but all one object kind of like the character
we've got the head and the arms and the hair and the legs but we've combined them all into one object.
Same kind of thing with the grease pencil over here as well.
So I'm in a tab in the edit mode and what I'll do is I'll just select one of these and I'll hit ah and
let's turn them down and make them angry determined
you go goes something like this.
Let's see.
Oh that's that's very angry.
Maybe not that much about something like it was
maybe he's more devious than angry.
Let's let's let's go with that huh.
All right.
So we've got I accidentally tumbled around and went into user perspective over here in the 2D view.
So what I need to do is go back to look through the camera.
To do that I can just hit the zero key on the numb pad.
There we go.
OK you know what I'm gonna do.
I'm going to take the mouth layer here and I'm gonna turn it off to create a new layer and I'm going
to call it mouth sneer.
Here we go.
And in this layer I will take this line tool and I'll just.
I don't want to do this.
I want to make it straight.
Let me undo that.
That isn't quite thick enough.
I'll take it back up to five pixels.
Let's say and I'll draw like this.
Hit enter.
Now let's tab into edit mode and select that and let's uh rotate it.
I'm not sure how he should maybe you should kinda be like this.
He's very determined there.
Let me.
Move it over just a bit.
And tilt it.
Not quite so much.
Let's try that.
Yes.
And maybe there you go.
He's very determined.
Yeah let's.
Let's go with that.
OK so there we go.
Now we've got our 2D face as well for the run cycle.
What we can do here is we can render this out just this single frame to be used when he runs.
Let's make sure everything is still correct.
We'll go to our output and we've got this going to the idol folder.
I don't think we want that.
Let's create a new folder here and call it run and we'll select that and hit except we've still got
it at 24 frames per second.
Two hundred and fifty six pixels that's good.
If we go to the render panel we've still got film Alpha transparent.
That's good.
So what let's do this time with our character and other objects hidden in the render view.
Let's come over here to render and render image.
All right.
So now that we've rendered that one frame out we just need to go to image save as and let's put it in
that run folder renders run and we'll call this run base image.
There we go.
Save as.
All right.
Let's go check it out.
So here's the idol folder with all the renders in it.
Let's go back to the renders folder the run folder and there is our run face image.
There we go OK.
So we now have the run animation complete.
I'm going to press control est and save the scene but I'm also going to go to File Save a copy here
and let's go into our exports and we'll call this player run right here and save.
There we go.
So now we've got our idol and our run the next step is our jump.
So we'll start working on that coming up next.